
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="silver_our_savage_neighborshow_indian_war_transformed_early_america">Silver, Our Savage Neighbors: How Indian War Transformed Early America</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> What united the diverse backcountry settler society prior to the Revolution?<br/>

</p>

<p>
To Silver, in the ethnically and religiously pluralistic mid-Atlantic “backcountry,” fear unites the white settlers against the Indians. This fear is sufficiently powerful to forge a common white identity and interest. Furthermore, it is durable such that it is a precursor to racism.<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup><br/>

</p>

<p>
Silver describes the Seven Years&#039; War as something of a turning point in which Indian warfare becomes something distinctly horrific to white folks – and there is a sense of desire for vengeance on both sides when it ends.<br/>
<br/>

He presents a very fraught image of pre-revolutionary America. Not ideologically united and really not for anything but against many things and that creates America. Kind of a cynical picture of American founding. But one I like.<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Silver himself calls this question something of a historiographical “backwater.”<sup><a href="#fn__3" id="fnt__3" class="fn_top">3)</a></sup> There has been strikingly little attention paid to how colonists far from the coast came to join themselves to one another and then to the Revolutionary cause.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
My major question here is also relevant to <a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:furstenberg_in_the_name_of_the_father" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:furstenberg_in_the_name_of_the_father" data-wiki-id="navigation:furstenberg_in_the_name_of_the_father">Furstenberg, In the Name of the Father: Washington&#039;s Legacy, Slavery, and the Making of a Nation</a>. Silver claims that this racial fear was propagated by “some provincial leaders and publicists” who experiment with the fear washing over the countryside – repackaging it and successfully embedding it deep into the political discourse.<sup><a href="#fn__4" id="fnt__4" class="fn_top">4)</a></sup> Who is doing this? And to what end?<br/>

</p>

<p>
Another question springs up when read in conversation with <a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:isaac_the_transformation_of_virginia" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:isaac_the_transformation_of_virginia" data-wiki-id="navigation:isaac_the_transformation_of_virginia">Isaac, The Transformation of Virginia, 1740-1790</a>. In both stories, it seems like major transformations (the ones that lay the groundwork for Revolution) come out of the tensions between old and new. In Silver, I call it an external tension – the Indians are the foreign, the outside. In Isaac, it is an internal tension within religion. How efficacious is this framework when we think of it on the broader colonial scale?<br/>

<br/>

Silver, Peter. <em>Our Savage Neighbors: How Indian War Transformed Early America</em>. New York: W. W. Norton, 2008.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Silver, xx</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Silver, 296</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__3" id="fn__3" class="fn_bot">3)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Silver, 316, note 7</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__4" id="fn__4" class="fn_bot">4)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Silver, xix</div></div>
</div>
