
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="isaac_the_transformation_of_virginia_1740-1790">Isaac, The Transformation of Virginia, 1740-1790</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> It seems like Isaac is asking: how did Virginia change over this period socially such that it joined the struggle for independence? <br/>

</p>

<p>
<br/>

1.	“An understanding of the generations of people of all races and religions who lived during the revolutionary decades in the distinct cultural region between the Chesapeake Bay and the Blue Ridge.”
2.	“seek concepts and methods for gaining an understanding of past people and so to contribute a mite to humanistic historical social science.”<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

<p>
So Isaac is describing the transformation of Virginia from 1740-1790 through religious and political lenses. He describes a society once united by religious and civil authority fragmenting into one that is far more individualistic – culminating in Jefferson’s Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom.
</p>

<p>
He accomplishes this through a detailed ethnography that connects church practices closely to social hierarchy. 
</p>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
He essentially inspired an entire historiography to take ethnologies seriously – and to willingly read the sources that are not written down like dances and other social rituals.<br/>

He also takes seriously the Great Awakening in the South – though some might argue he takes it a little too seriously.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
“The intention has been to review in social-cultural context the double revolution in religious and political thought and feeling that took place in the second half of the eighteenth century.”<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Holton<br/>

Gross, even<br/>

Really all of these books. What a stupid category to put on this study wiki
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Isaac, Rhys. <em>The Transformation of Virginia, 1740-1790</em>. Chapel Hill: UNC Press, 1982.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Isaac, 7</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Isaac, 5</div></div>
</div>
