
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="wilentz_the_rise_of_american_democracyjefferson_to_lincoln">Wilentz, The Rise of American Democracy: Jefferson to Lincoln</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
As Wilentz himself admits, his argument is that democracy did indeed “rise” during the first half of the nineteenth century. He has myriad corollary arguments, but this is the most essential thrust.
</p>

<p>
<br/>

Wilentz is primarily concerned with high politics – though, of course, includes discussions of culture as he folds into his narrative the growing popular participation in politics. In short, his question is really “How did the United States come to be more democratic? and Why?”
</p>

<p>
His answer is partially related to the founding structure and ideals of the United States but it is, too, connected to the rapid economic development and religio-philosophical ideas proliferating in the young republic.
</p>

<p>
<br/>

THEMES:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> democracy and the contest over it at the founding</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> social change, especially Northern commercialization and the renaissance of Southern plantation slavery</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Americans perceived social change in political terms</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> “democracy in America was the spectacle of Americans arguing over democracy”</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> In the 1840s, two democracies emerge: the North and the South</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The fight for democracy required (and still does) constant attention</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<em>The Rise of American Democracy</em> is a masterful synthesis that contributes, above all, a brilliant synopsis of the early republic and the United States&#039; struggle for democracy. He argues convincingly that the ordinary people came to see their fates inextricably tied to politics. Further, he paints a vivd picture of the increasingly intractable situation between the North and the South erupting into civil war with the election of Lincoln.
</p>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Sean uses the documents of high politicians, congress, and papers to write his tale. He structures his story chronologically and sees Jackson as the first really democratically elected president.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Wilentz becomes something of a Jackson apologist. His corollary argument about the two democracies (North and South) is perhaps not as compelling as he imagines.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Howe, <em>What Hath God Wrought</em>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Wilentz, Sean. <em>The Rise of American Democracy: Jefferson to Lincoln</em>. New York: W. W. Norton &amp; Company, 2005.
</p>

</div>
