
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="rushforth_bonds_of_allianceindigenous_and_atlantic_slaveries_in_new_france">Rushforth, Bonds of Alliance: Indigenous and Atlantic Slaveries in New France</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> How did Indian slavery come about in New France? Why? What did it look like?<br/>

</p>

<p>
Rushforth details slavery&#039;s practice in New France between 1660 and 1760. In its early form during this period, slavery was not alienation so much as diplomatic discourse – literally created bonds of alliance. This network of slavery facilitated broader political economies of trade and intermarriage.<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup><br/>
<br/>

</p>

<p>
By 1707, France, itself, was operating under a “free soil” policy – but it allowed its colonies to practice a high degree of freedom in determining the conditions of slavery. Rushforth calls this legal pluralism. The story of French slavery in New France is one of French officials trying to replicate the highly profitable enslaved labor system in the French Carribbean.<br/>

Indian slavery in Montreal developed as part of France’s Atlantic strategy of creating locally governed slave societies within a pluralistic kingdom.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	While slaveholders encouraged Indians to adopt French culture, they denied them French identity (family formation, full participation in Catholicism, “respectable means of making a living”)<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Rushforth qualifies the idea of accommodation and rejects the long-held idea that Indians were not enslaved in New France or that slavery there can be understood through Caribbean slavery. Indeed these entities were incredibly different.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Rushforth, Brett. <em>Bonds of Alliance: Indigenous and Atlantic Slaveries in New France</em>. Chapel Hill: OI UNC Press, 2012.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Rushforth, 70</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Rushforth, 366</div></div>
</div>
