
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="spear_race_sex_and_social_order_in_early_new_orleans">Spear, Race, Sex, and Social Order in Early New Orleans</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> why did racially exogamous relationships in early New Orleans rise and fall?<br/>

</p>

<p>
In the early eighteenth century, economic and pragmatic considerations promoted relationships between Indian women and French men. These relationships between African women and European men increase during the last third of 18th century, Spear thinks, due to the creolization of Franco and Afro Louisianans whose parents/grandparents had arrived in 1710s and 1720s (though also the arrival of Spanish immigrants after 1763 who were more open to intimate relations with women of color). Thus these relationships were “culturally endogamous even if they may have been perceived as racially exogamous”<br/>
<br/>

</p>

<p>
KEY: laws were not an exact reflection of social practice but they were used to define and embed racial categories in the social order.<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Spear traces the development of what she calls a “tripartite racial system” where, by the beginning of the nineteenth century Indians were outside of the system and African descended people were essential to it. This was due in part to the way that colonial leaders created and enforced legal codes that defined race but it also showed a deeply diversified society.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Spear, Jennifer. <em>Race, Sex, and Social Order in Early New Orleans</em>. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2009.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Spear, 217</div></div>
</div>
