
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="wood_black_majoritynegroes_in_south_carolina_from_1670_through_the_stono_rebellion">Wood, Black Majority: Negroes in South Carolina from 1670 through the Stono Rebellion</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> What are the “Southern roots” of Black Americans? What is the colonial African American history?
</p>

<p>
His key argument is that the role of enslaved Black folks in South Carolina has been largely downplayed because of the ultimate triumph of slavery. Wood says, however, “the Negro majority, through persistent and varied resistance to the constraints of the slave system, brought South Carolina closer to the edge of upheaval than historians have been willing to concede.” – though they inspired a counterattack that sought to further circumscribe the lives of enslaved Black people in the wake of Stono.<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
This book is incredibly foundational. Along with <a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:morgan_american_slavery_american_freedom" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:morgan_american_slavery_american_freedom" data-wiki-id="navigation:morgan_american_slavery_american_freedom">Morgan</a> writing the next year, Wood is part of an initial wave of scholarship taking the history of slavery more seriously to focus on enslaved people and slavery, itself, rather than accepting it as something of a static historical fact. It&#039;s worth considering this as a response to pretty unabashedly racist histories like those of U.B. Phillips.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:morgan_american_slavery_american_freedom" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:morgan_american_slavery_american_freedom" data-wiki-id="navigation:morgan_american_slavery_american_freedom">Morgan, American Slavery, American Freedom: The Ordeal of Colonial Virginia</a><br/>

<a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:gomez_exchanging_our_country_marks" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:gomez_exchanging_our_country_marks" data-wiki-id="navigation:gomez_exchanging_our_country_marks">Gomez, Exchanging our Country Marks: The Transformation of African Identities in the Colonial and Antebellum South</a><br/>

<a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:berlin_many_thousands_gone" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:berlin_many_thousands_gone" data-wiki-id="navigation:berlin_many_thousands_gone">Berlin, Many Thousands Gone: The First Two Centuries of Slavery in North America</a>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Wood, Peter. <em>Black Majority: Negroes in South Carolina from 1970 through the Stono Rebellion</em>. New York: A. A. Knopf, 1974.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Wood, 326</div></div>
</div>
