
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="laura_stoler_race_and_the_education_of_desirefoucault_s_history_of_sexuality_and_the_colonial_order_of_things">Laura Stoler, Race and the Education of Desire: Foucault&#039;s History of Sexuality and the Colonial Order of Things</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Stoler is taking up Foucault&#039;s <a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:foucault_history_of_sexuality_introduction" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:foucault_history_of_sexuality_introduction" data-wiki-id="navigation:foucault_history_of_sexuality_introduction">History of Sexuality</a> and viewing it “through the prism of empire.” Her main concern is getting past Foucault&#039;s admitted eurocentrism, grappling with race as it interacts with sexuality and biopower, and shifting his nineteenth-century chronology earlier.
</p>

<p>
Indeed she insists that there was a much earlier racial “grammar” and “logic” to empire than at the metropole. This took the form of racial safe-guarding and an early obsession with blood purity. She, like Foucault, hesitates to get specific about places and times (this is theory, after all), but she convincingly shows that the metropole was not the sole locus of biopower or even formulation of sexuality. Indeed, the bourgeois order that deployed biopower did so around the biopolitics of race.<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Stoler intends to do (and I think does so effectively) what Foucault claims to do with his work. She wants to start a conversation and provoke new directions for study and analysis. In this case, she certainly offers a jumping-off point for scholars of colonialism and post-colonialism to investigate the ties between race and desire and sexuality. Furthermore, she hints at connections between race, class, and sexuality that have been taken up – like as with <a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:scott_gender_a_useful_category_of_analysis" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:scott_gender_a_useful_category_of_analysis" data-wiki-id="navigation:scott_gender_a_useful_category_of_analysis">Scott, Gender: A  Useful Category of Historical Analysis</a>.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques">Critiques:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:foucault_history_of_sexuality_introduction" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:foucault_history_of_sexuality_introduction" data-wiki-id="navigation:foucault_history_of_sexuality_introduction">Foucault, The History of Sexuality, Volume I: An Introduction</a><br/>

<a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:scott_gender_a_useful_category_of_analysis" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:scott_gender_a_useful_category_of_analysis" data-wiki-id="navigation:scott_gender_a_useful_category_of_analysis">Scott, Gender: A  Useful Category of Historical Analysis</a>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Laura Stoler, Ann. <em>Race and the Education of Desire: Foucault&#039;s History of Sexuality and the Colonial Order of Things</em>. Durham: Duke University Press, 1995.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Stoler, 207</div></div>
</div>
