
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="lemisch_jack_tar_in_the_streetsmerchant_seamen_in_the_politics_of_revolutionary_america">Lemisch, Jack Tar in the Streets: Merchant Seamen in the Politics of Revolutionary America</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Question: Initially, why if sailors were the same as landmen in American did it seem there was a disposition against young men going off to sea? <br/>
A bigger question is: where were common sailors in the Revolution? <br/>
Still bigger, he asks, why did sailors take up the fight for the American Revolution – especially if their early riots were “ideologically inert” as <a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:bailyn_ideological_origins_of_the_american_revolution" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:bailyn_ideological_origins_of_the_american_revolution" data-wiki-id="navigation:bailyn_ideological_origins_of_the_american_revolution">Bailyn</a> says. <br/>

</p>

<p>
It also seems like he&#039;s, in part, asking: what motivated regular laborers to revolution?<br/>

</p>

<p>
Lemisch insists that the common sailor – Jack Tar – and his protests against impressment reveal the class division but also the unities of early American society. Impressment into the royal navy affected everyone – merchants and sailors, but almost everyone would have had a relative at sea. Nonetheless, the high level resistance to impressment distanced itself from the interests of the common sailor. Although Jack Tar remained overwhelmingly loyal to America, on the other side of the Revolution “government was still gentleman’s government: more people were defined as gentlemen, but Jack Tar was not yet among them.”<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Lemisch does a set of things that enrich or contradict Bailyn&#039;s approach. First, he insists that the Revolution was indeed an (importantly) violent conflict. Secondly, he suggests that the elite ideology was not the only one that motivated the Revolution, but indeed that the common soldier “fought, as he had for many years before, for his life, liberty, and property.”<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
This is a good (and early) social history. Lemisch uses laws that governed sailors, records of sailors, their mentions in elite letters and so forth to imagine the lives and constraints placed on Jack Tar. <br/>
Neo-Progressive.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Frankly this is a gorgeous piece. It&#039;s clear why this has stood the test of time: it gives the bottom up perspective of the American Revolution and begins to suggest class where previously class division was ignored. It gestures to the “unity” problem (i.e. what bound the American colonies against England) and challenges Bailyn elegantly. In his last line Lemisch writes “There are many worlds and much of human history in that vast area between ideology and inertness,” which rings beautifully true.<sup><a href="#fn__3" id="fnt__3" class="fn_top">3)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:bailyn_ideological_origins_of_the_american_revolution" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:bailyn_ideological_origins_of_the_american_revolution" data-wiki-id="navigation:bailyn_ideological_origins_of_the_american_revolution">Bailyn, The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution</a>
Nash
Maier
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Lemisch, Jesse. “Jack Tar in the Streets: Merchant Seamen in the Politics of Revolutionary America.”<em>The William and Mary Quarterly</em> 25, no.3 (1968): 371-407.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Lemisch, 404</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__3" id="fn__3" class="fn_bot">3)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Lemisch, 407</div></div>
</div>
