
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="furstenberg_in_the_name_of_the_fatherwashington_s_legacy_slavery_and_the_making_of_a_nation">Furstenberg, In the Name of the Father: Washington&#039;s Legacy, Slavery, and the Making of a Nation</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> What bound the people of the United States together? How (and a bit why) did they create a national identity?<br/>

</p>

<p>
Furstenberg answers simply: civic texts – the published founding documents, filiopietistic accounts of the founders <em>especially</em> Washington, and their wide readership – created a shared ideology of what it meant to consent to be governed. It did not look like Jefferson&#039;s idea where the dead ought have no say in the lives of the living. Rather it was a Madisonian tacit consent. This served to subtly justify slavery by suggesting that the enslaved tacitly consented to their subjugation. It also petrified (turned them into rock) the founding documents, making them untouchable relics of the sacred founding era.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
He uses civic texts, as you might imagine.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Parkinson reviews this book and has a couple issues, some of which I find more serious or real than others. As with Silver, it does seem like his civic texts sometimes take on a life of their own, divorced from the people producing them. Furthermore, the ideology that Furstenberg did not spring to life out of the Constitution, but existed long before, sculpted by the founders, themselves.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Who subscribed to these ideas? Who consumed them and who held to them? Who created them?
<br/>

Furstenberg, Francois. <em>In the Name of the Father: Washington&#039;s Legacy, Slavery, and the Making of a Nation</em>. New York: Penguin Press, 2006.
</p>

</div>
