
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="kerber_women_of_the_republicintellect_and_ideology_in_revolutionary_america">Kerber, Women of the Republic: Intellect and Ideology in Revolutionary America</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> What did the Revolution mean to women? Why were they not included in the promises of the American Revolution?
<br/>

Kerber gives the answer to this question by coining a term: Republican Motherhood. In doing so, she jumpstarts a whole river of scholarship that has taken to her term that describes both the possibilities and limits of the woman&#039;s participation in the young United States.<br/>

-	Seems like her argument is that women chiseled out space for themselves in the young republic in order to participate in politics as shapers of their sons
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Kerber coined the term Republican Motherhood which is still used to describe the limits and opportunities of women in early national politics.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Kerber looks at sources of culture – first she does work in intellectual history tracing ideas about women in the Enlightenment. She also looks at Broadsides, the diaries and correspondences of women, and cultural materials like novels. She&#039;s also in the legal limits of women&#039;s participation in politics.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Jan Lewis<br/>

</p>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Kerber, Linda. <em>Women of the Republic: Intellect and Ideology in Revolutionary America</em>. Chapel Hill: OI UNC Press, 1980.
</p>

</div>
