
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="taylor_american_coloniesthe_settling_of_north_america">Taylor, American Colonies: The Settling of North America</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
In <em>American Colonies</em>, Taylor provides a synthesis from literally 13,000B.C. to 1820. Which is as ambitious as it is chuckle-worthy. In any case, he seems to have done so quite well. His main concern is to provide a continental history viewed broadly – one that considers the imperial powers as they landed in the Americas and bumped up against one another and the Indigenous inhabitants of the continent.
<br/>
<br/>

This isn&#039;t a comparative history so much as it&#039;s a history of the continent that occasionally invites comparison between European empires.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
This is really <strong>the</strong> book on the Americas during the colonial period – and before. Taylor shows convincingly the progression of colonization in the Americas and gives room to what he sees as a few newer trends: environmental history, Atlantic lens, and Indigenous studies. (Dare I say that the Atlantic lens is growing a bit tired these days.)
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Synthetic. Sources tend to be “other people&#039;s scholarship.”
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques">Critiques:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
The environmental bit feels a little shoe-horned in at moments. Also, I think Blackhawk does a MUCH better job of the Great Basin than Taylor. This is fine and to be expected. But it is worth noting that Blackhawk paints what I believe to be a more accurate portrait of the cycles of violence in the North American Southwest during the colonial period.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Everyone who does colonial history but especially:<br/>

<a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:elliott_empires_of_the_atlantic_world" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:elliott_empires_of_the_atlantic_world" data-wiki-id="navigation:elliott_empires_of_the_atlantic_world">J. H. Elliott, Empires of the Atlantic World: Britain and Spain in America, 1492-1830</a><br/>

<a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:richter_before_the_revolution" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:richter_before_the_revolution" data-wiki-id="navigation:richter_before_the_revolution">Richter, Before the Revolution: America&#039;s Ancient Pasts</a>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Taylor, Alan. <em>American Colonies: The Settling of North America</em>. New York: Penguin Books, 2001.
</p>

</div>
