
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="gomez_exchanging_our_country_marksthe_transformation_of_african_identities_in_the_colonial_and_antebellum_south">Gomez, Exchanging our Country Marks: The Transformation of African Identities in the Colonial and Antebellum South</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question: </strong> How did Africans and their descendants attempted to fashion a collective identity in the colonial and antebellum American South?<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup> <br/>

Gomez suggests that the creation of an African American identity relied on a transition from ethnicity to race and that “prior to 1830, the movement toward race and away from ethnicity met with varying degrees of success relative to place and period, and in any case was influenced by ethnic antecedents.”<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup> <strong>Key</strong> is that “class emerged as the principal obstacle to a race-based collective concept.”<sup><a href="#fn__3" id="fnt__3" class="fn_top">3)</a></sup> Just as important to the development of the black community was the conversion to Christianity which bridged the differences between the African and the country-born.<sup><a href="#fn__4" id="fnt__4" class="fn_top">4)</a></sup><br/>

Gomez concludes that there was a fracture between the black elite and the majority of the African-based community. This issue is that even after the end of slavery, the elite focus on Jim Crow whereas the majority see that the problem was racism.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
It is key to Gomez&#039;s analysis to critically evaluate ethnicity. Indeed, some African ethnic labels were artifacts of the slaved trade or mediated by white/enslaver worldviews. Nonetheless, he suggests that there <em>were</em> preexisting ethnic identities and some even developed under the conditions of slavery.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Gomez, Michael. <em>Exchanging our Country Marks: The Transformation of African Identities in the Colonial and Antebellum South</em>. Chapel Hill: The University of North Carolina Press, 1998.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Gomez, 3-4</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__3" id="fn__3" class="fn_bot">3)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Gomez, 4</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__4" id="fn__4" class="fn_bot">4)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Gomez, 15</div></div>
</div>
