
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="anishanslin_portrait_of_a_woman_in_silkhidden_histories_of_the_british_atlantic_world">Anishanslin, Portrait of a Woman in Silk: Hidden Histories of the British Atlantic World</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Anishanslin&#039;s aim is two-fold. She seeks to show how materials can teach us about the past and also how they constituted a shared British Atlantic identity. It is a really beautiful and ambitious book that does a lot – gender, markets, material culture, economy, identity. In Anishanslin&#039;s argument, there is a plurality to the Atlantic world. It seems to revolve around and through the connections of the market and rising capitalism.<br/>

<strong> Question: </strong> What can materials say about the past? Moreover, what was the role of women in the imperial project? Above all, how did Americans construct identity and what did things have to do with that?<br/>
<br/>

</p>

<p>
Per Anishanslin, the books is both about the decay and the florescence of the British empire.<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
</p>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Unlike T.H. Breen – or others who argue that there was no real crystallized concept of Americanness except during the imperial crisis – Anishanslin insists that Americans developed their own material culture and home market and this, in turn, shaped both society and identity.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Anishanslin skillfully argues that materials helped to create a distinctive – and growing ever more distinct – American identity. The experience of the marketplace, even as it brought goods from far away England, distinguished Americans from their English forbears. While Anishanslin addresses the gendered division of labor and highly gendered ways that men or women expressed themselves. Women in particular commanded textiles and botany. Both expressed in artistic form the imperial image of America as Eden even while their practice in the colonies evidenced the ever encroaching empire. I am not convinced that she adequately articulates the relationship between gender and identity. How did women contribute to an identity that men and women shared? Would they have had a distinctive conception of self?
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Anishanslin, Zara. <em>Portrait of a Woman in Silk: Hidden Histories of the British Atlantic World</em>. New Haven: Yale University Press, 2016.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Anishanslin, 20</div></div>
</div>
