
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="kunzel_criminal_intimacyprison_and_the_uneven_history_of_modern_american_sexuality">Kunzel, Criminal Intimacy: Prison and the Uneven History of Modern American Sexuality</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> Why has sex in prison been viewed as ahistorical? Moreover what role has this view played in the cultivation of an identity tied to sexual practice over the course of the 19th and 20th centuries?<br/>
<br/>

[this book] examines the shifting concerns, anxieties, and fascinations about sex in prison and tracks the different strategies to ease those anxieties employed from the institution’s beginnings in early-nineteenth century America through the late twentieth century – strategies that helped explain, tame, or ignore sex in prison.”
<br/>

Kunzel describes the sexual practice of a prison culture that was made to be separate by sociologists and culture, alike. The trouble that prison sex makes, however, changes over time. In its earliest stage, the American prison was meant to be a laboratory of morals and so sexual activity was policed and surveilled.
</p>

<p>
There are a few important turning points. By the 20th century prison comes to be seen as a refuge for perverts. In the mid-twentieth century sexual practice unsettles the crystallizing understandings of homosexuality <em>and</em> heterosexuality.
</p>

<p>
<br/>

1970s conception of prison sexual violence as motivated by dominance rather than desire. This “effectively disaggregated prison sexual expression from its troubling relationship to sexual identity”<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
<br/>

In the difficulties in their attempts to fold inmates into the gay and lesbian family being imagined in the 1970s and 1980s, “[activists] exposed the ironically normative and evangelizing impulses of gay liberation and of “modern” homosexuality more generally.<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
226 prisons are porous and so not isolated sites of sexual activity – though treated as such in ways that crystallized the conflation of classed and racial subcultures with danger and sexual deviance
</p>

<p>
237 the underlying assumption that there are sexual expressions with no history (or a history “out of sync” with sexuality has led historians to assume that by mid 20th c, homo/heterosexual binary constituted the dominant if not universal way of thinking about sex.
</p>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Kunzel uses both the records of prison observers and those produced by prisoners.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Kunzel, Regina. <em>Criminal Intimacy: Prison and the Uneven History of Modern American Sexuality</em>. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 2008.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Kunzel, 188</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Kunzel, 224</div></div>
</div>
