
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="j_h_elliott_empires_of_the_atlantic_worldbritain_and_spain_in_america_1492-1830">J. H. Elliott, Empires of the Atlantic World: Britain and Spain in America, 1492-1830</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Here, Elliott seeks to interweave a sort of comparative imperial history of Spain and Britain in the Americas. In doing so, Elliott insists on attention both to local dynamics and to the global context that animated each European power&#039;s colonies. He posits that “a light focused on one of them at a given moment will simultaneously cast a secondary beam over the history of the other.”<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
I guess a comparative and context-driven examination of the British and Spanish presence in the Americas is worthwhile.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
METHOD: constant comparison, juxtaposition, interweaving the two stories, seeks to reassemble a fragmented history and display the development of these two great New World civilizations over the course of three centuries. Elliott refuses to “squeeze different aspects of the histories of British and Spanish America into near compartments that would allow their similarities and differences to be listed and offset.”<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques">Critiques:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Pretty egregious dismissal of the Indigenous and African inhabitants of the Americas within these settlements. I mean, he does say that he is focusing on <em>settler societies</em>, but to do so makes an assumption that Indigenous folks (among others) were somehow… external… to settler societies.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
He&#039;s not really picking many fights. This is a synthesis before anything else. It&#039;s valuable insofar as it challenges and reminds the reader to evade teleological and United States-centric histories of America by focusing equally on the Spanish and British and zooming out to the global scale.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Elliott, J. H. <em>Empires of the Atlantic World: Britain and Spain in America, 1492-1830</em>. New Haven: Yale University Press, 2006.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
, <sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Elliott, xviii.</div></div>
</div>
