
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="walker_howe_what_hath_god_wroughtthe_transformation_of_america_1815-1848">Walker Howe, What Hath God Wrought: The Transformation of America, 1815-1848</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Howe&#039;s animating question is, pretty much: <em>what hath God wrought?</em> <br/>

</p>

<p>
Howe&#039;s interpretation of the early nineteenth century is the Whig side of Sean&#039;s Democrat coin. In other words, Howe sees the Whig party as one of aspirations and reformers – the party of the future. Above all, however, Howe sees technology and communication as the most essential causes for transformation in this period, driving what some call the market revolution, though he doesn&#039;t really buy that. He does not see this era as one of widespread democratization in the political sphere so much as he sees it in society - through activism and religion.<br/>

</p>

<p>
Samuel Morse and suffragists are Howe&#039;s emblems of the transformations of this period.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Harry L. Watson writes a brilliant review in the <em>AHR</em>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:wilentz_the_rise_of_american_democracy" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:wilentz_the_rise_of_american_democracy" data-wiki-id="navigation:wilentz_the_rise_of_american_democracy">Wilentz, The Rise of American Democracy: Jefferson to Lincoln</a><br/>

McPherson
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Walker Howe, Daniel. <em>What Hath God Wrought: The Transformation of America, 1815-1848</em>. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007.
</p>

</div>
