
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="lepore_the_name_of_warking_philip_s_war_and_the_origins_of_american_identity">Lepore, The Name of War: King Philip&#039;s War and the Origins of American Identity</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Lepore&#039;s key assertion is that King Philip&#039;s War – its events and how those events got narrativized – reified distinctive “Indian” and “British-American” identities. Indeed, according to Lepore, the English fought the war to defend their identity and define it against both Indian and Spanish identities.<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
</p>

<p>
Lepore organizes the book into four sections: Language, War, Bondage, and Memory. Each section has two chapters and steps, fairly chronologically through the war and concludes in the mid-nineteenth century with a play, popular in America, that dramatized the war and life of King Philip.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Lepore&#039;s concern is with theories of war, violence, and meaning-making. She borrows from social theorist, Elaine Scarry to interrogate the Indian experience of and memory of King Philip&#039;s War, through the surviving British accounts. She also connects the war and the narrativization of the war to British and later American identity (as well as, to a lesser extent, Indian identity later on).
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Lepore is interested in cultural production and so focuses on literary sources – accounts of King Philip&#039;s War produced after the fact. These sources (by design) come from white colonists, primarily men, with the notable exception of Mary Rowlandson who wrote an account of her captivity during the war. Lepore notes that white folks produced and then reproduced narratives of the war in order to silence the Indian experience and win the war over the war&#039;s memory. During the Revolution and in the mid-nineteenth century, Americans resurrected tales of the war to assert their identity against the British. Eventually, Indians too have asserted identity by reclaiming the war and the legacy of King Philip AKA Metacom.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques">Critiques:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
On page 154, Lepore argues that enslaving Indians demonstrates “just how furiously the colonists had come to despise a people they had once hoped to convert.”
I think there’s another, somewhat more nuanced way to read this. Lepore sees KPW as a point of rupture. In her view, where the English had once tried to convert and integrate Indians into their own culture, they came to hate them and wished to eradicate them in and because of this war. In another view, though, we could read the war as a story of continuity. The British always wanted to absorb Indians and overwhelm their culture through conversion and civilization. When the Algonquians rejected this so roundly through KPW, they pursued the same goal by another path. Perhaps it’s cynical, but it is possible to despise a group (and a culture) that you want to convert. Maybe it’s even necessary.
<br/>

<br/>

Lepore certainly attempts to include the Indian experience, though her subject is demonstrably white culture and identity production. Curiously, however, she misses the texture of colonial British society in a way that&#039;s reminiscent of Allan Greer&#039;s complaint at McNeil. Put simply, she flattens the British society and then the American society. See notes for greater detail.
</p>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:brooks_our_beloved_kin" class="wikilink2" title="navigation:brooks_our_beloved_kin" rel="nofollow" data-wiki-id="navigation:brooks_our_beloved_kin"> Lisa Brooks, Our Beloved Kin</a>
<br/>

<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
How does King Philip&#039;s War – and the way people wrote about war – impact the “origins” of American identity?
<br/>

<br/>

What of accommodation in war? The English must bow to the war tactics of the Indians during KPW, particularly capture and torture to placate their allies.<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup> What might Richard White&#039;s <a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:white_the_middle_ground" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:white_the_middle_ground" data-wiki-id="navigation:white_the_middle_ground"> The Middle Ground: Indians, Empires, and Republics in the Great Lakes Region, 1650-1815</a> have to say about this? I suspect this would be a misuse of the Middle Ground framework.
<br/>

<br/>

How does American identity differ from English identity, especially, but also Indian identity and those of other Europeans?
<br/>

<br/>

Is the word “identity” sufficient for understand oppositional Indigenous/British identities? In other words, how can Lepore discuss a common identity held by Indians when she insists on their plurality and, furthermore, does this frame assume an Anglo structure of “identity” that might not even make sense to Indians?
<br/>

<br/>

Lepore, Jill. <em>The Name of War: King Philip&#039;s War and the Origins of American Identity</em>. New York: Vintage Books, 1998.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Lepore, 8</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Lepore, 4</div></div>
</div>
