
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="bailyn_the_ideological_origins_of_the_american_revolution">Bailyn, The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Xxix Bailyn says that a fundamental and general ideology characterized and empowered the revolution (spurred and influenced by Enlightenment values).
<br/>

Put differently, Bailyn believes that there was a truly-held ideology behind the Revolution and that it can be traced in America well before the imperial system had become intractable in the 1760s and 70s. It can be traced to:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> classical antiquity</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> enlightened rationalism</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> english common law</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> political and social theories of New England Puritanism</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> the radical political and social thought of the English Civil War and Commonwealth period</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> Why did Americans declare independence? How did they justify the revolution and how did they articulate themselves.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Wood characterizes this book as “the culmination of a long-existing tradition of interpreting the causes of the Revolution in terms of ideas rather than social conflict.”
</p>

<p>
<br/>

In truth, Bailyn&#039;s book is essential reading on the American Revolution. He captures the powerful wave of American thought that led the colonies to discard imperial rule, meticulously tracing the discourse of the era through pamphlets.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Famously, short form pamphlets published as responses to events as they happened, responses to local issues or “chain-reacting personal polemics,” and ritualistic pamphlets like of orations.<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Perhaps Bailyn jettisons the progressive interpretation too much. Indeed he calls the eighteenth century the “age of ideology.”<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup> This corresponds to his argument that ideology rather than social conditions empowered the revolution.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Check out Gordon S. Wood&#039;s thoughts on this bad boy on its 50th anniversary:<a href="https://www-mitpressjournals-org.ezproxy.princeton.edu/doi/abs/10.1162/tneq_a_00661" class="urlextern" title="https://www-mitpressjournals-org.ezproxy.princeton.edu/doi/abs/10.1162/tneq_a_00661" rel="ugc nofollow"> GSW Review in NEQ.</a>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Bailyn, Bernard. <em>The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution</em>. Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1967.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Bailyn, 5</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Bailyn, 158</div></div>
</div>
