
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="berlin_many_thousands_gonethe_first_two_centuries_of_slavery_in_north_america">Berlin, Many Thousands Gone: The First Two Centuries of Slavery in North America</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> How – and why did the experience of slavery varied over time and region in America?<br/>

His key points are that slavery was characterized by contestation and unstable master-slave negotiations. He also insists that terrain changes the nature of slavery as well as time. He. also places heavy on the development of enslaved people&#039;s cultures within the constraints of slavery.<br/>

Slavery differs based on the soil, the demography, market availability, origins of slaves and slaveholders.<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup><br/>

</p>

<p>
<strong>Charter generations:</strong> the first arrivals, their children, sometimes grandchildren<br/>

<strong>Plantation generations:</strong> forced to grow the great staples<br/>

<strong>Revolutionary generations:</strong> grasped the promise of freedom and faced a resurgent slave regime<br/>

</p>

<p>
Chesapeake:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	Last quarter of 17th c, linkages among people of color (both free and unfree) grow at the expense of linkages with white folks. Communities exist at this moment, if no distinctive Black culture</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	During the last decades of 17th century, tobacco production surges along with demand for slaves, new system of dominance (plantation) characterized by violence and control. Families are unstable.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
North:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	Began as societies with slaves, not slave societies and remained such well into the 18th c. Atlantic creoles established cultural roots in the port cities of the North and through the region. Less intense slave society emerges in mid 18th c. Gradual emancipation after Revolution in the North (not clear why North and not South but we can make some inferences)</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Lowcountry:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	Things fracture. Short charter generations South Carolina. Though these cosmopolitan Atlantic creoles arrived in seventeenth c South Carolina and Florida, rice cultivation in late 17th c South Carolina accelerated the plantation. Though charter generations survive into 18th c Florida. Very similar plantation culture to Chesapeake (and in both regions slaves come to outnumber free whites). Though Berlin insists a kind of negotiation allowed enslaved people in the lowcountry to retain more culture than in other places.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Lower MS (Louisiana):
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	During 18th c. lower Mississippi went from slave society to society with slaves and saw growing creolization. Slave population does not dramatically increase here until the 1780s and the plurality of the region affords enslaved people chances to participate in the economy somewhat and to purchase their freedom. They also form a pluralistic language and culture set apart and based somewhat in African custom.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Berlin distinguishes between early “societies with slaves” and later “slave societies”
</p>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
This is an extraordinary synthesis that covers a broad swath of time.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
See <a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:wood_black_majority" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:wood_black_majority" data-wiki-id="navigation:wood_black_majority">Wood, Black Majority: Negroes in South Carolina from 1670 through the Stono Rebellion</a> for Carolina.<br/>

See <a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:morgan_american_slavery_american_freedom" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:morgan_american_slavery_american_freedom" data-wiki-id="navigation:morgan_american_slavery_american_freedom">Morgan, American Slavery, American Freedom: The Ordeal of Colonial Virginia</a> for Chesapeake and tobacco.<br/>

</p>

<p>
<a href="https://allenmendenhallblog.com/2011/02/09/outline-and-summary-of-ira-berlins-many-thousands-gone/" class="urlextern" title="https://allenmendenhallblog.com/2011/02/09/outline-and-summary-of-ira-berlins-many-thousands-gone/" rel="ugc nofollow">Helpful chapter by Chapter Summary</a>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Berlin, Ira. <em>Many Thousands Gone: The First Two Centuries of Slavery in North America</em>. Cambridge: Belknap press of Harvard University Press, 1998.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Berlin, 7</div></div>
</div>
