
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="holton_forced_foundersindians_debtors_slaves_the_making_fo_the_american_revolution">Holton, Forced Founders: Indians, Debtors, Slaves, &amp; the Making fo the American Revolution</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> Why did Virginia participate in the American Revolution?<br/>

</p>

<p>
from 1763-1776  merchants, slaves, and. Debtors helped propel free Virginians into the Independence movement in three ways:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">-	Free Virginians’ efforts to influence imperial policy contested by Native Americans, British merchants, and enslaved Virginians</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">-	Free Virginians were compelled to boycott to hopefully repeal oppressive laws and reduce Virginian debts to merchants</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">-	The boycott transformed society and economy in unexpected ways presenting opportunities to slaves and putting pressure on the colony’s small farmers<br/>
<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
when Virginia gentlemen launched their struggle to preserve and extend their freedom, they were powerfully influenced by other freedom struggles – movements put together by Indians, debtors, merchants, slaves, and smallholders<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
</p>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
There are a few really important pieces. First, that the supposedly purely ideological Virginia founders were also pushed towards revolution by real, material, economic and social causes and concerns. Further, often the people pushing them were Indians, enslaved folks, and small time farmers.
</p>

<p>
Second, the story of Revolutionary sentiment is highly localized and there is an element of contingency such that per the ol Adams quote, “twelve clocks” struck at the same time.“
</p>

<p>
Third, he moves away from the urban story of Revolution (of Maier, perhaps, or Nash) and the Northern story – like that of Wood.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
He uses gentlemen&#039;s sources to study non-gentlemen. He also says that it actually wasn&#039;t that difficult.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:wood_the_radicalism_of_the_american_revolution" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:wood_the_radicalism_of_the_american_revolution" data-wiki-id="navigation:wood_the_radicalism_of_the_american_revolution">Wood, The Radicalism of the American Revolution</a><br/>

<a href="/~elenaryan/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=navigation:isaac_the_transformation_of_virginia" class="wikilink1" title="navigation:isaac_the_transformation_of_virginia" data-wiki-id="navigation:isaac_the_transformation_of_virginia">Isaac, The Transformation of Virginia, 1740-1790</a>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Holton, Woody. <em>Forced Founders: Indians, Debtors, Slaves, &amp; the Making fo the American Revolution</em>. Chapel Hill: OI UNC Press, 1999.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Holton, xxi</div></div>
</div>
