
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="nash_the_urban_cruciblesocial_change_political_consciousness_and_the_origins_of_the_american_revolution">Nash, The Urban Crucible: Social Change, Political Consciousness, and the Origins of the American Revolution</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> Why did port cities become the crucibles of revolutionary agitation and how was it that urban people “upset the equilibrium” of an older social system?<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup> <br/>
<br/>

</p>

<p>
Nash insists that there was <em>real</em> class stratification prior to the American Revolution and that there were shadows of what we might call class consciousness that accelerated and empowered revolutionary change. The difficult plight of cities in the Seven Years&#039; War saw the increasing dissatisfaction of the lower sorts who began to eschew deference in pursuit of more popular participatory politics to varying degrees of success. <br/>

While Philadelphia, New York, and Boston saw something like growing class consciousness in advance of the American Revolution, he sees Boston kind of failing on this consciousness issue, New York dealing with high conflict over it, and Philadelphia kind of… triumphing, really developing consciousness.<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
It is easy to see Nash as part of the same tradition as Lemisch. His interest is in the lower sort of people and he insists on a revolutionary story that is not merely ideology as Bailyn would have it, nor even purely social, but as one that also relied on the economic concerns of people at the bottom of eighteenth century society.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Nash, Gary. <em>The Urban Crucible: Social Change, Political Consciousness, and the Origins of the American Revolution</em>. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1979.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Nash, x</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Nash, 230</div></div>
</div>
