
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="wood_the_radicalism_of_the_american_revolution">Wood, The Radicalism of the American Revolution</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
He assumes that “revolution” is a fitting name for the American Independence movement. It seems his generalized questions is something like: how did America become the most democratic/liberal/modern nation in the world?<br/>

Alternatively, what did the Revolution do to American social structures?<br/>

Why did America end up looking so different from England?<br/>
<br/>

His argument is predictably ambitious and, at times, overstated, though certainly not without value and drama. He insists that “Americans were not born free and democratic in any modern sense; they became so – and largely as a consequence of the American Revolution.”<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup> He insists that attempts to frame the Revolution as a Marxist Revolution fail because America lacked the characteristic class stratification of such an economic revolution. Rather, Wood insists, the Revolution was dually ideological and social. Ideas, real social conditions, events, and the distinctly American milieu combined to revolutionize society across independence, the war and early republic.
</p>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Wood joins the vociferous scholarship to insist on something like a middle ground in the scholarship – if the middle ground were premised on a third, separate dogmatic fusion of two sides rather than a space of mutual accommodation between the two. Wood insists that there is indeed something social to the Revolution, joining conditionally with Neo-Progressive scholarship. He also conditionally agrees with Bailyn that it is an ideological conflict. Yet, he insists that both sides have it wrong. It was not a classed revolution so much as one of social hierarchy. In saying this, Wood divorces social factors from economic and marries them to ideology, while also paying close attention to popular reactions to events and ideological actors (the Founders, his clear heroes in this tale of triumph).
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Wood&#039;s sources are much the same as Bailyn&#039;s. He uses the literature of the revolution and of the early republic (correspondences, constitutions, pamphlets) to communicate his points.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
I make the great point in my book notes that perhaps his willingness to elide the fates of women, slaves, Indians ought to create bigger problems with his insistence on giving the broad view of the American Revolution as he insists it is the right time for (rather than regional or group studies).<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup><br/>
<br/>

This is also a very Northern story.<br/>
<br/>

Wood also writes as though he&#039;s rooting for the elites… Or at least assumes they were indeed virtuous or well-intentioned.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Wood, Gordon. <em>The Radicalism of the American Revolution</em>. New York: A. A. Knopf, 1991.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Wood, Preface</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Wood, 6</div></div>
</div>
