
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="gross_the_minutemen_and_their_world">Gross, The Minutemen and their World</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> How did ordinary townspeople – those in Concord, MA – experience the Revolution? <br/>
<br/>

Gross shows through his colorful social history that the ground-level experience of town and community life combined with an external world infringing ever more on quotidian life shaped the common experience of the revolution. Gross shows that the people of Concord, wrapped up in provincial splits over religion and without much interest in questioning authority, suddenly found the Revolution happening in their community. There is a sense that they get swept up into the Revolutionary movement. In Gross&#039; story, the Revolution is both “tribal and defensive.”<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup> In the aftermath of the Revolution, Concord becomes a patriotic symbol but the town also sees material transformation as interest associations form and weaken the nuclear community fabric. Young men begin leaving home earlier and striking out and, in sum, “the townspeople no longer “accepted the existence of rank and privilege as part of the natural order of things.”<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
In the words of Alan Taylor in the prologue: “The Minutemen and Their World combined the new social history with an attention to grand events, biographical detail, and literary craft.”
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Gross, as Taylor remarks, is pioneering new social history – his concern with the ground level social dynamics, economic structures, and communitarian bonds – in the historiography. Simultaneously, however, he investigates how these people responded to British austerity and a revolutionary fervor emanating from nearby Boston.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Gross, Robert. <em>The Minutemen and their World</em>. New York: Hill and Wang, 1976.
</p>

</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Gross, 108</div></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<div class="content">Gross, 188</div></div>
</div>
