
<h3 class="sectionedit1" id="calloway_the_american_revolution_in_indian_countrycrisis_and_diversity_in_native_american_communities">Calloway, The American Revolution in Indian Country: Crisis and Diversity in Native American Communities</h3>
<div class="level3">

</div>

<h4 id="animating_questions_argument">Animating Questions/Argument:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
The revolution was more than merely replacing the monarch with a president and indeed that the real events of the revolution had long-lasting repercussions.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Question:</strong> What was the experience of the American Revolution on its fringes for Indigenous people? And why is the common narrative so monolithic such that it collapses the Native American narrative into a single one?<br/>
<br/>

</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	Many Mohawks tied to the Johnson dynasty by marriage and to the crown by “perceived common interest” joined other Loyalists in moving to Canada rather than to be dependent on the new republic</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	Chickamauga, Mingo, and many Shawnees warriors tried in the Rev to regain some independence by “turning the tide of settlement”  how</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	Stockbridge and many other New England Indians spoke as if the cause of American liberty was their own </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	White Eyes of the Delawares say in rev and American alliance a chance to assert his people’s independence from Iroquois</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	Younger Cherokees and Dragging Canoe saw it as a chance to declare independence from politicies and authority of older generation of chiefs</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	Iroquois see destruction of confederacy</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">	Seminoles increase independence from Creek confederacy</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
“Some communities were destroyed in the Revolution; others grew out of it.”
</p>

<p>
297 talks about how damaging the American national mythology has been and how it has served to shroud the diversity and complexity of Indian experiences of the Rev. Suggests their cultural resistance only furthered the conviction that Indians are savages
</p>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="contribution_to_the_field">Contribution to the Field:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
The first broad coverage of Indian experiences in the American Revolution rather than Indian participation as allies or enemies of contending parties… Calloway shows how Native Americans pursued different strategies and endured a variety of experiences, but were bequeathed a common legacy as a result of the Revolution.
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="sources_and_methodology">Sources and Methodology:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="critiques_and_praise">Critiques and Praise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="related_authors_and_books">Related Authors and Books:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="reader_s_questions">Reader&#039;s Questions:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
<br/>

Calloway, Colin. <em>The American Revolution in Indian Country: Crisis and Diversity in Native American Communities</em>. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1995.
</p>

</div>
